=== RAW OCR ===
16

bhavas 12 {0 7 is concerned in other systems 25 well. Other
longevity calculations have becn suitably annotated by me.

The reader will also do well to study chapter 44 concerning
Marakas before he takes a decision on longevity. Rahu/Ketu
have also been assigned Marakatwa roles.

The concluding chapter of Vol 1 is the 45th dealing with a
number of kinds of Avasthas of the planets. Out of these, the
12 Avasthas, known as Sayanadi Avasthas are of supreme impor-
tance. If one tries to interpret these Avasthas in proper spirit,
he will be able to detect the diseases the native will suffer. I
have supported my views with the help of information from
Adbhuta Sagara of Ballala Sena and Hora Ratna of Balabhadra.
For example, if Mars is in Agamanavastha, one will suffer from
deep ear pains. , In the normal parlance, we consider only Jupiter
in the context of ear defects. Diseases of hand and foot are
assigned to Venus in Agamanavastha. If one conducts a scien-
tific research in the matter of diseases with the help of planetary

. Avasthas, viz, Sayanadi Avasthas, one is bound to reach many
brilliant clues. ।

The present work offers a vast scope for success in predic-
tive astrology. One can build up his own applied astrology
instead of theoretical astrology if he works on the lines suggested
by Maharshi Parasara. ।

A word of caution is necessary for the benefit of the reader,
In order to understand the hidden aspects of the various rules
given herein, what is required isa thorough understanding of
these principles. Skipping over fast to an ensuing chapter may
not convey the real idea of a ‘present’ chapter. To make the
reader’s Job easier, [ have explained every difficult aspect as
clearly as I understand based on my own experience and study of
other authoritative texts,

In the end, I would like to mention that my attempt to
translate this great work and annotate may not have been wholly
successful. I surely would have left some shortcomings unno-
ticed and unrectified. From the readers, I can only expect the
affection of forgiving me for any innocent lapses.

New Delhi । R, Santhanam
Vijaya Dasami 1984


=== AI CLEANED ===
16

Bhavas 12 are concerned in other systems as well. Other longevity calculations have been suitably annotated by me.

The reader will also do well to study Chapter 44 concerning *Marakas* before he takes a decision on longevity. Rahu/Ketu have also been assigned *Marakatwa* roles.

The concluding chapter of Vol 1 is the 45th, dealing with a number of kinds of *Avasthas* of the planets. Out of these, the 12 *Avasthas*, known as *Sayanadi Avasthas*, are of supreme importance. If one tries to interpret these *Avasthas* in proper spirit, he will be able to detect the diseases the native will suffer. I have supported my views with the help of information from *Adbhuta Sagara* of Ballala Sena and *Hora Ratna* of Balabhadra. 

For example, if Mars is in *Agamanavastha*, one will suffer from deep ear pains. In the normal parlance, we consider only Jupiter in the context of ear defects. Diseases of hand and foot are assigned to Venus in *Agamanavastha*. If one conducts a scientific research in the matter of diseases with the help of planetary *Avasthas*, viz, *Sayanadi Avasthas*, one is bound to reach many brilliant clues.

The present work offers a vast scope for success in predictive astrology. One can build up his own applied astrology instead of theoretical astrology if he works on the lines suggested by Maharshi Parasara.

A word of caution is necessary for the benefit of the reader: In order to understand the hidden aspects of the various rules given herein, what is required is a thorough understanding of these principles. Skipping over fast to an ensuing chapter may not convey the real idea of a ‘present’ chapter. To make the reader’s job easier, I have explained every difficult aspect as clearly as I understand based on my own experience and study of other authoritative texts.

In the end, I would like to mention that my attempt to translate this great work and annotate may not have been wholly successful. I surely would have left some shortcomings unnoticed and unrectified. From the readers, I can only expect the affection of forgiving me for any innocent lapses.

New Delhi | R. Santhanam
Vijaya Dasami 1984